# About

## motto

Get it out in bits.  (Gabler 11.586)

## About UPUP

UPUP is a project to accumultate resources to facilitate discussion of
Ulysses in small chunks.  The work is broken into "UPUP"s, each
corresponding roughly to 1 page in print editions.  The first
368 parts (thru the middle of Wandering Rocks) use the divisions of
Delaney's podcasts.

The UPUP project is open source, hosted on Github, with CC0 licensing,
so that anyone can use the materials for any purpose, and so that the
project can be easily continued when the original creators go to their
eternal reward, are incarcerated, or for any other reason stop
maintaining the project.

As of 2019, the project is still embryonic an suggestions on how it
should develop are welcome.  Some thoughts of mine (/u/Earthsophagus
on reddit):

### Current features

episodes split into chunks, with Gabler line numbers and Egoist page
numbers.  Currently Scylla-Cyclops are complete.

Links to episode-wide blog posts, modernism lab, Digital archive.

### Envisioned features

+ unobtrusive mark for Gabler line ends

+ page numbers from other editions, Viking, Alma

+ per-UPUP links to scholarly resoures (e.g.  from Jstor) and
bibliographical citatations to printed matter.

+ vocabulary and etymology notes per page

+ links to podcasts

## How to Contribute

Mechanically - via github, suggestion on /r/jamesjoyce on reddit, or
twitter to @upup1904

A list of ideas for stuff needed is here: [Help wanted](./help_wanted.md)

## UPUP on Reddit

UPUP is also the name of a group read-thru of Ulysses in years-long
cycle. It runs on Reddit.

Reddit is just a so-so platform, technically, for this kind of thing.
Reddit is designed to discuss trending topics, not to sustain
discussion of minute facets of century-old novels with permanent
interest.  The main drawback it has is that posts more than a couple
days old are buried by its UI, and so if you comment on a non-current
post, it's unlikely anyone except the one person to whom you respond
will see it.

Culturally, the ownership of Reddit doesn't have any commitment to
openness/stability.  Reddit has a history of sexist/cyberstalker culture that
keeps a lot of people away from the platform.  But I don't know a more
practical alternative to reddit.  It would be iteresting if someone
would explore a reddit-email gateway.

Its advantage is that it's easy to post to, there's no practial
limitation to how much anyone can post, and that anyone can read it
whether they have an account or not, and it's "discoverable."


## Web resources

### Open Library

### jstor

Jstor allows "civilians" access to thousands of academic articles, 6 per month.

### Egoist Copy

https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1#page/n23/mode/2up -- Page numbers commonly cited when not using Gabler line numbers

### Gutenberg Copy

Plain text/epub/html/kindle   http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/4300

### Skeat

The etymologist Stephen Dedalus read.  1888 version (likely the
version Joyce would have had access to as a young man)

https://archive.org/details/etymologicaldict00skeauoft/page/n6

### Green's Slang

Not Joyce specific but useful:  https://greensdictofslang.com/




