UPUP 146 

[Egoist xxx](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/xxx/mode/1up) * Gabler 14.984-1037

[Oxen of the Sun episode links](https://github.com/upup1904/ulysses_splits/blob/master/oxen_of_the_sun/episode_links_oxen_of_the_sun.md)


(mid para) The
abnormalities of harelip, breastmole, supernumerary digits, negro's
inkle, strawberry mark and portwine stain were alleged by one as a
*prima facie* and natural hypothetical explanation of those swineheaded
(the case of Madame Grissel Steevens was not forgotten) or doghaired
infants occasionally born. The hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced
by the Caledonian envoy and worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the
land he stood for, envisaged in such cases an arrest of embryonic
development at some stage antecedent to the human. An outlandish
delegate sustained against both these views, with such heat as almost
carried conviction, the theory of copulation between women and the males
of brutes, his authority being his own avouchment in support of fables
such as that of the Minotaur which the genius of the elegant Latin poet
has handed down to us in the pages of his Metamorphoses. The impression
made by his words was immediate but shortlived. It was effaced as easily
as it had been evoked by an allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in
that vein of pleasantry which none better than he knew how to affect,
postulating as the supremest object of desire a nice clean old man.
Contemporaneously, a heated argument having arisen between Mr Delegate
Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch regarding the juridical and theological
dilemma created in the event of one Siamese twin predeceasing the other,
the difficulty by mutual consent was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for
instant submittal to Mr Coadjutor Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent,
whether the better to show by preternatural gravity that curious dignity
of the garb with which he was invested or in obedience to an inward
voice, he delivered briefly and, as some thought, perfunctorily the
ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man to put asunder what God has
joined.

But Malachias' tale began to freeze them with horror. He conjured up the
scene before them. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in
the recess appeared... Haines! Which of us did not feel his flesh creep!
He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand, in the other a
phial marked *Poison.* Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all
faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. I anticipated some such
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it seems, history
is to blame. Yes, it is true. I am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And
how I am punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is the
appearance is on me. Tare and ages, what way would I be resting at all,
he muttered thickly, and I tramping Dublin this while back with my share
of songs and himself after me the like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My
hell, and Ireland's, is in this life. It is what I tried to obliterate
my crime. Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited
some), laudanum (he raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain!
His spectre stalks me. Dope is my only hope... Ah! Destruction! The
black panther! With a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back.
An instant later his head appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet
me at Westland Row station at ten past eleven. He was gone. Tears gushed
from the eyes of the dissipated host. The seer raised his hand to
heaven, murmuring: The vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: *Lex
talionis*. The sentimentalist is he who would enjoy without incurring
the immense debtorship for a thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion,
ceased. The mystery was unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real
name was Childs. The black panther was himself the ghost of his own
father. He drank drugs to obliterate. For this relief much thanks. The
lonely house by the graveyard is uninhabited. No soul will live there.
The spider pitches her web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from
his hole. A curse is on it. It is haunted. Murderer's ground.

