UPUP 152 

[Egoist xxx](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/xxx/mode/1up) * Gabler 14.1222-1256

[Oxen of the Sun episode links](https://github.com/upup1904/ulysses_splits/blob/master/oxen_of_the_sun/episode_links_oxen_of_the_sun.md)


It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted
transcendentalism to which Mr S. Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) contentions
would appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter
to accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often
repeated, deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the
man in the street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked
and explain them as best he can. There may be, it is true, some
questions which science cannot answer—at present—such as the first
problem submitted by Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the future
determination of sex.  Must we accept the view of Empedocles of
Trinacria that the right ovary (the postmenstrual period, assert
others) is responsible for the birth of males or are the too long
neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating factors or is
it, as most embryologists incline to opine, such as Culpepper,
Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and Valenti, a mixture
of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation (one of nature's
favourite devices) between the *nisus formativus* of the nemasperm on
the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, *succubitus
felix*, of the passive element. The other problem raised by the same
inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. It is interesting
because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way
but we all die in different ways. Mr M.  Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.)
blames the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens
contract adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. by inhaling the bacteria
which lurk in dust. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting
spectacles offered by our streets, hideous publicity posters,
religious ministers of all denominations, mutilated soldiers and
sailors, exposed scorbutic cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead
animals, paranoic bachelors and unfructified duennas—these, he said,
were accountable for any and every fallingoff in the calibre of the
race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, would soon be generally adopted and
all the graces of life, genuinely good music, agreeable literature,
light philosophy, instructive pictures, plastercast reproductions of
the classical statues such as Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured
photographs of prize babies, all these little attentions would enable
ladies who were in a particular condition to pass the intervening
months in a most enjoyable manner. (mid para)

