UPUP 136 

[Egoist xxx](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/xxx/mode/1up) * Gabler 14.604-650

[Oxen of the Sun episode links](https://github.com/upup1904/ulysses_splits/blob/master/oxen_of_the_sun/episode_links_oxen_of_the_sun.md)



(mid para) By this time the father of the faithful (for so they called him) was
grown so heavy that he could scarce walk to pasture. To remedy which
our cozening dames and damsels brought him his fodder in their
apronlaps and as soon as his belly was full he would rear up on his
hind quarters to show their ladyships a mystery and roar and bellow
out of him in bulls' language and they all after him. Ay, says
another, and so pampered was he that he would suffer nought to grow in
all the land but green grass for himself (for that was the only colour
to his mind) and there was a board put up on a hillock in the middle
of the island with a printed notice, saying: By the Lord Harry, Green
is the grass that grows on the ground. And, says Mr Dixon, if ever he
got scent of a cattleraider in Roscommon or the wilds of Connemara or
a husbandman in Sligo that was sowing as much as a handful of mustard
or a bag of rapeseed out he'd run amok over half the countryside
rooting up with his horns whatever was planted and all by lord Harry's
orders. There was bad blood between them at first, says Mr Vincent,
and the lord Harry called farmer Nicholas all the old Nicks in the
world and an old whoremaster that kept seven trulls in his house and
I'll meddle in his matters, says he. I'll make that animal smell hell,
says he, with the help of that good pizzle my father left me. But one
evening, says Mr Dixon, when the lord Harry was cleaning his royal
pelt to go to dinner after winning a boatrace (he had spade oars for
himself but the first rule of the course was that the others were to
row with pitchforks) he discovered in himself a wonderful likeness to
a bull and on picking up a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the
pantry he found sure enough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the
famous champion bull of the Romans, *Bos Bovum*, which is good bog
Latin for boss of the show. After that, says Mr Vincent, the lord
Harry put his head into a cow's drinkingtrough in the presence of all
his courtiers and pulling it out again told them all his new
name. Then, with the water running off him, he got into an old smock
and skirt that had belonged to his grandmother and bought a grammar of
the bulls' language to study but he could never learn a word of it
except the first personal pronoun which he copied out big and got off
by heart and if ever he went out for a walk he filled his pockets with
chalk to write it upon what took his fancy, the side of a rock or a
teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. In short, he and
the bull of Ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse and a
shirt. They were, says Mr Stephen, and the end was that the men of the
island seeing no help was toward, as the ungrate women were all of one
mind, made a wherry raft, loaded themselves and their bundles of
chattels on shipboard, set all masts erect, manned the yards, sprang
their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in the wind, put her head
between wind and water, weighed anchor, ported her helm, ran up the
jolly Roger, gave three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off
in their bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of America. Which
was the occasion, says Mr Vincent, of the composing by a boatswain of
that rollicking chanty:

*â€”Pope Peter's but a pissabed.\
 A man's a man for a' that.*

