[Egoist 354-355](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/354/mode/2up) * Gabler 13.894-932

[Nausicaa episode links](https://github.com/upup1904/ulysses_splits/blob/master/nausicaa/episode_links_nausicaa.md)


There she is with them down there for the fireworks. My fireworks. Up
like a rocket, down like a stick. And the children, twins they must be,
waiting for something to happen. Want to be grownups. Dressing in
mother's clothes. Time enough, understand all the ways of the world. And
the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth. I knew she could
whistle. Mouth made for that. Like Molly. Why that highclass whore in
Jammet's wore her veil only to her nose. Would you mind, please, telling
me the right time? I'll tell you the right time up a dark lane. Say
prunes and prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips.
Caressing the little boy too. Onlookers see most of the game. Of course
they understand birds, animals, babies. In their line.

Didn't look back when she was going down the strand. Wouldn't give that
satisfaction. Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls. Fine
eyes she had, clear. It's the white of the eye brings that out not so
much the pupil. Did she know what I? Course. Like a cat sitting beyond a
dog's jump. Women never meet one like that Wilkins in the high school
drawing a picture of Venus with all his belongings on show. Call that
innocence? Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out for her. Never see
them sit on a bench marked *Wet Paint*. Eyes all over them. Look under
the bed for what's not there. Longing to get the fright of their lives.
Sharp as needles they are. When I said to Molly the man at the corner of
Cuffe street was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged at once he
had a false arm. Had, too. Where do they get that? Typist going up Roger
Greene's stairs two at a time to show her understandings. Handed down
from father to, mother to daughter, I mean. Bred in the bone. Milly for
example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to save the ironing. Best
place for an ad to catch a woman's eye on a mirror. And when I sent her
for Molly's Paisley shawl to Prescott's by the way that ad I must,
carrying home the change in her stocking! Clever little minx. I never
told her. Neat way she carries parcels too. Attract men, small thing
like that. Holding up her hand, shaking it, to let the blood flow back
when it was red. Who did you learn that from? Nobody. Something the
nurse taught me. O, don't they know! Three years old she was in front of
Molly's dressingtable, just before we left Lombard street west. Me have
a nice pace. Mullingar. Who knows? Ways of the world. Young student.
Straight on her pins anyway not like the other. Still she was game.
Lord, I am wet. Devil you are. Swell of her calf. Transparent stockings,
stretched to breaking point. Not like that frump today. A. E. Rumpled
stockings. Or the one in Grafton street. White. Wow! Beef to the heel.
