delaney341 Insults and Insinuations

—This gentleman? *Freeman’s Journal? Kilkenny People?* To be sure. Good
day, sir. *Kilkenny*... We have certainly...

A patient silhouette waited, listening.

—All the leading provincial... *Northern Whig, Cork Examiner,
Enniscorthy Guardian,* 1903... Will you please?... Evans, conduct this
gentleman... If you just follow the atten... Or, please allow me... This
way... Please, sir...

Voluble, dutiful, he led the way to all the provincial papers, a bowing
dark figure following his hasty heels.

The door closed.

—The sheeny! Buck Mulligan cried.

He jumped up and snatched the card.

—What’s his name? Ikey Moses? Bloom.

He rattled on:

—Jehovah, collector of prepuces, is no more. I found him over in the
museum where I went to hail the foamborn Aphrodite. The Greek mouth that
has never been twisted in prayer. Every day we must do homage to her.
*Life of life, thy lips enkindle.*

Suddenly he turned to Stephen:

—He knows you. He knows your old fellow. O, I fear me, he is Greeker
than the Greeks. His pale Galilean eyes were upon her mesial groove.
Venus Kallipyge. O, the thunder of those loins! *The god pursuing the
maiden hid*.

—We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Best’s approval. We
begin to be interested in Mrs S. Till now we had thought of her, if at
all, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome.

—Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beauty
from Kyrios Menelaus’ brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy in
whom a score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. Twenty
years he lived in London and, during part of that time, he drew a salary
equal to that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. His life was rich. His
art, more than the art of feudalism as Walt Whitman called it, is the
art of surfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar
of roses, marchpane, gooseberried pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter
Raleigh, when they arrested him, had half a million francs on his back
including a pair of fancy stays. 

