delaney345 Feelings of Greed

*Amplius. In societate humana hoc est maxime necessarium ut sit amicitia
inter multos.*

—Saint Thomas, Stephen began...

—*Ora pro nobis*, Monk Mulligan groaned, sinking to a chair.

There he keened a wailing rune.

—*Pogue mahone! Acushla machree!* It’s destroyed we are from this day!
It’s destroyed we are surely!

All smiled their smiles.

—Saint Thomas, Stephen smiling said, whose gorbellied works I enjoy
reading in the original, writing of incest from a standpoint different
from that of the new Viennese school Mr Magee spoke of, likens it in his
wise and curious way to an avarice of the emotions. He means that the
love so given to one near in blood is covetously withheld from some
stranger who, it may be, hungers for it. Jews, whom christians tax with
avarice, are of all races the most given to intermarriage. Accusations
are made in anger. The christian laws which built up the hoards of the
jews (for whom, as for the lollards, storm was shelter) bound their
affections too with hoops of steel. Whether these be sins or virtues old
Nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet. But a man who holds so tightly
to what he calls his rights over what he calls his debts will hold
tightly also to what he calls his rights over her whom he calls his
wife. No sir smile neighbour shall covet his ox or his wife or his
manservant or his maidservant or his jackass.

—Or his jennyass, Buck Mulligan antiphoned.

—Gentle Will is being roughly handled, gentle Mr Best said gently.

—Which will? gagged sweetly Buck Mulligan. We are getting mixed.

—The will to live, John Eglinton philosophised, for poor Ann, Will’s
widow, is the will to die.

*—Requiescat!* Stephen prayed.

What of all the will to do?\
 It has vanished long ago...

—She lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest bed, the mobled
queen, even though you prove that a bed in those days was as rare as a
motorcar is now and that its carvings were the wonder of seven parishes.
In old age she takes up with gospellers (one stayed with her at New
Place and drank a quart of sack the town council paid for but in which
bed he slept it skills not to ask) and heard she had a soul. She read or
had read to her his chapbooks preferring them to the *Merry Wives* and,
loosing her nightly waters on the jordan, she thought over *Hooks and
Eyes for Believers’ Breeches* and *The most Spiritual Snuffbox to Make
the Most Devout Souls Sneeze*. Venus has twisted her lips in prayer.
Agenbite of inwit: remorse of conscience. It is an age of exhausted
whoredom groping for its god.

