delaney344 Cornjobbers & Gross Virgins

—Do you mean he died so? Mr Best asked with slight concern. I mean...

—He died dead drunk, Buck Mulligan capped. A quart of ale is a dish for
a king. O, I must tell you what Dowden said!

—What? asked Besteglinton.

William Shakespeare and company, limited. The people’s William. For
terms apply: E. Dowden, Highfield house...

—Lovely! Buck Mulligan suspired amorously. I asked him what he thought
of the charge of pederasty brought against the bard. He lifted his hands
and said: *All we can say is that life ran very high in those days.*
Lovely!

Catamite.

—The sense of beauty leads us astray, said beautifulinsadness Best to
ugling Eglinton.

Steadfast John replied severe:

—The doctor can tell us what those words mean. You cannot eat your cake
and have it.

Sayest thou so? Will they wrest from us, from me, the palm of beauty?

—And the sense of property, Stephen said. He drew Shylock out of his own
long pocket. The son of a maltjobber and moneylender he was himself a
cornjobber and moneylender, with ten tods of corn hoarded in the famine
riots. His borrowers are no doubt those divers of worship mentioned by
Chettle Falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing. He sued a
fellowplayer for the price of a few bags of malt and exacted his pound
of flesh in interest for every money lent. How else could Aubrey’s
ostler and callboy get rich quick? All events brought grist to his mill.
Shylock chimes with the jewbaiting that followed the hanging and
quartering of the queen’s leech Lopez, his jew’s heart being plucked
forth while the sheeny was yet alive: *Hamlet* and *Macbeth* with the
coming to the throne of a Scotch philosophaster with a turn for
witchroasting. The lost armada is his jeer in *Love’s Labour Lost*. His
pageants, the histories, sail fullbellied on a tide of Mafeking
enthusiasm. Warwickshire jesuits are tried and we have a porter’s theory
of equivocation. The *Sea Venture* comes home from Bermudas and the play
Renan admired is written with Patsy Caliban, our American cousin. The
sugared sonnets follow Sidney’s. As for fay Elizabeth, otherwise
carrotty Bess, the gross virgin who inspired *The Merry Wives of
Windsor*, let some meinherr from Almany grope his life long for deephid
meanings in the depths of the buckbasket.

I think you’re getting on very nicely. Just mix up a mixture of
theolologicophilolological. *Mingo, minxi, mictum, mingere.*

—Prove that he was a jew, John Eglinton dared, expectantly. Your dean of
studies holds he was a holy Roman.

*Sufflaminandus sum.*

—He was made in Germany, Stephen replied, as the champion French
polisher of Italian scandals.

—A myriadminded man, Mr Best reminded. Coleridge called him
myriadminded.

