June 3

egoist 289

[egoist 289](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/289/mode/1up)  
[page-by-page](http://ulyssespages.blogspot.com/2014/11/p289.html)  
[James Joyce Digital Archive](http://www.jjda.ie/main/JJDA/U/ulex/n/lexn.htm)  
[Marked-up](http://www.columbia.edu/~fms5/ulw12.htm)  
[Genius](https://genius.com/James-joyce-ulysses-chap-12-cyclops-annotated)
[Volupcy, jjonline](http://www.jjon.org/joyce-s-words/volupcy)



Next UPUP June 7

In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by
tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasing
luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of
the etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge
of jivic rays from the crown of the head and face. Communication was
effected through the pituitary body and also by means of the
orangefiery and scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and
solar plexus. Questioned by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the
heavenworld he stated that he was now on the path of prālāyā or return
but was still submitted to trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty
entities on the lower astral levels. In reply to a question as to his
first sensations in the great divide beyond he stated that previously
he had seen as in a glass darkly but that those who had passed over
had summit possibilities of atmic development opened up to
them. Interrogated as to whether life there resembled our experience
in the flesh he stated that he had heard from more favoured beings now
in the spirit that their abodes were equipped with every modern home
comfort such as tālāfānā, ālāvātār, hātākāldā, wātāklāsāt and that the
highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy of the very purest
nature. Having requested a quart of buttermilk this was brought and
evidently afforded relief. Asked if he had any message for the living
he exhorted all who were still at the wrong side of Māyā to
acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles that
Mars and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle where the
ram has power. It was then queried whether there were any special
desires on the part of the defunct and the reply was: We greet you,
friends of earth, who are still in the body. Mind C. K. doesn’t pile
it on. It was ascertained that the reference was to Mr Cornelius
Kelleher, manager of Messrs H. J. O’Neill’s popular funeral
establishment, a personal friend of the defunct, who had been
responsible for the carrying out of the interment arrangements. Before
departing he requested that it should be told to his dear son Patsy
that the other boot which he had been looking for was at present under
the commode in the return room and that the pair should be sent to
Cullen’s to be soled only as the heels were still good. He stated that
this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in the other region and
earnestly requested that his desire should be made known.

Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it was
intimated that this had given satisfaction.

He is gone from mortal haunts: O’Dignam, sun of our morning. Fleet was
his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow. Wail, Banba, with
your wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind.
