July 9, 2019
Titles:
The canine original

[Egoist 298-299](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/298/mode/2up) * Gabler: 12.712-747


Episode links:
[James Joyce Digital Archive](http://www.jjda.ie/main/JJDA/U/ulex/n/lexn.htm)  
[Marked-up](http://www.columbia.edu/~fms5/ulw12.htm)  
[Genius](https://genius.com/James-joyce-ulysses-chap-12-cyclops-annotated)  
[Ulysses Guide](http://www.ulyssesguide.com/new-page)
[Modernism Lab](https://modernism.coursepress.yale.edu/the-cyclops/)
[Wikibooks](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Annotations_to_James_Joyce%27s_Ulysses/Cyclops)

All those who are interested in the spread of human culture among the
lower animals (and their name is legion) should make a point of not
missing the really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy given by the
famous old Irish red setter wolfdog formerly known by the sobriquet of
Garryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends and
acquaintances Owen Garry. The exhibition, which is the result of years
of training by kindness and a carefully thoughtout dietary system,
comprises, among other achievements, the recitation of verse. Our
greatest living phonetic expert (wild horses shall not drag it from
us!) has left no stone unturned in his efforts to delucidate and
compare the verse recited and has found it bears a striking
resemblance (the italics are ours) to the ranns of ancient Celtic
bards. We are not speaking so much of those delightful lovesongs with
which the writer who conceals his identity under the graceful
pseudonym of the Little Sweet Branch has familiarised the bookloving
world but rather (as a contributor D. O. C. points out in an
interesting communication published by an evening contemporary) of the
harsher and more personal note which is found in the satirical
effusions of the famous Raftery and of Donal MacConsidine to say
nothing of a more modern lyrist at present very much in the public
eye. We subjoin a specimen which has been rendered into English by an
eminent scholar whose name for the moment we are not at liberty to
disclose though we believe that our readers will find the topical
allusion rather more than an indication. The metrical system of the
canine original, which recalls the intricate alliterative and
isosyllabic rules of the Welsh englyn, is infinitely more complicated
but we believe our readers will agree that the spirit has been well
caught. Perhaps it should be added that the effect is greatly
increased if Owen’s verse be spoken somewhat slowly and indistinctly
in a tone suggestive of suppressed rancour.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*The curse of my curses*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Seven days every day*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*And seven dry Thursdays*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*On you, Barney Kiernan,*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*Has no sup of water*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*To cool my courage,*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*And my guts red roaring*  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*After Lowry’s lights.*  
  
