May 26, 2019

[egoist 287](https://archive.org/stream/ulysses00joyc_1?ref=ol#page/287/mode/1up)

[page-by-page](http://ulyssespages.blogspot.com/2014/11/p287.html)  
[James Joyce Digital Archive](http://www.jjda.ie/main/JJDA/U/ulex/n/lexn.htm)  

-- full

[James Joyce Digital Archive](http://www.jjda.ie/main/JJDA/U/ulex/n/lexn.htm)  
[Marked-up](http://www.columbia.edu/~fms5/ulw12.htm)  
[Genius](https://genius.com/James-joyce-ulysses-chap-12-cyclops-annotated)
[Ulysses Guide](http://www.ulyssesguide.com/new-page)




Prompts

o) what point does Joyce have in bringing up hanging?
o) why the attention to the coin?

—When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe.

—Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up. Is that Alf Bergan?

—Yes, says Alf. Hanging? Wait till I show you. Here, Terry, give us a pony. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. You should have seen long John’s eye. U. p ....

And he started laughing.

—Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. Is that Bergan?

—Hurry up, Terry boy, says Alf.

Terence O’Ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal cup
full of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh
and Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the
sons of deathless Leda. For they garner the succulent berries of the
hop and mass and sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith
sour juices and bring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night
or day from their toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat.

Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born,
that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that
thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals.

But he, the young chief of the O’Bergan’s, could ill brook to be
outdone in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a
testoon of costliest bronze. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork
was seen the image of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of
Brunswick, Victoria her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of
God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the
British dominions beyond the sea, queen, defender of the faith,
Empress of India, even she, who bore rule, a victress over many
peoples, the wellbeloved, for they knew and loved her from the rising
of the sun to the going down thereof, the pale, the dark, the ruddy
and the ethiop.

